
:J

v

/

,-1

SCHOOL PRINCIPALS' WORKSHOP

SHEDIAC, N.B. May 20, 1970

~C!........
-..

"IT SHALL COME TO PASS..."

Introduction -

TOpic -

appreciate invitation see a number of familiar faces always nice to be back in New Brunswick

Entry into education was7an accident:
-hadn't intended to write matrics -considered going into business -here I am - in administration (sometimes think that is as far removed from education as one can~

difficult to know what to say should one be entertaining or serious should one congratulate or antagonize

decided to say some of the things which bother and concern me - perhaps they also .~. you - you know that better than I

I understand your topic is "Supervising Teaching or Teachers?" does a higher authority discuss "Supervising Supervisors and Administrators?

If I am critical of education, teachers, supervisors, studen~, or administrators, please do not be offended. After all I speak as an insider and still consider myself as an educator even as I fill the function of administrator. 


2.
/
/

I
/

I came across the following last week when I was gathering notes for this occasion:
WHAT IS A SUPERVISOR?

If he is pleasant, he is too familiar; if he is sober-faced, he is a sourpuss.
If he is young, he doesn't know anything! if he is old, he is an old stiff.
If he belongs to a lodge, member expect favors.
If he goes to church, he's a hypocrite; if he doesn't he's a heathen.
If he drinks, he's an old souse; if he doesn't, he's a tightwad.
If he talks to everybody, he(§ a gossip, if he doesn't_ he's stuck-up.
If he insists that the rules of the plant be kept, he's too particular; if he doesn't, he's careless. If he looks around, he's snooping; if he doesn't, he's unobservant.
If he tries to settle all complaints, he must have the wisdom as Solomon; if he worries about them, he'll soon ,be crazy.
He should 9ave the patience of Job, the skin of a rhinoc~tos, the cunning of a fox, the courage of a lion, be blind as a bat,c";1.lent as a sphinx.

','
I i, 1
,



One could speak of technological change, however that topic is often over played, speaking of that,-

The Globe and Mail reported a story a few years ago of the pilot of a large aircraft who was discussing with a scientist the matter of automation and use of computors in airlines. The conversation dealt with the fact that

the pilots would not be required much longer on such airlines because of the introduction of computors and other automatic controlling devices; The conversation went on and the whole matter was explored at some length. When the pilot turned to leave he summarized his thoughts on automation when he said, "1 don't think that people will be replaced as pilots, after all how else but with a person can you find a controlled device that is relatively small, takes up relatively little space, weighs approximately 150-175 pounds, gives you movement in all directions, is self adjusting and self maintaining to a major extent . J~nd furthermore, can be produced with unskilled labor."
.~-'- ~ rli~~
lrvV- J .- ,j~_..:::>
,..-f .;,.\-'\"" ,,/
. .' ~/ Since I am an Islander now and can escape across the
~ .~,'I
" ~ Strait later tonight and thus escape reprisal, 1 decided
,y'" .
~. to speak on a serious subject.
~. ''--. (Remember the principal who said "When 1 pass on, 1 would ~ like it to happen in a faculty meeting - the transition l will be easier from there.

WHY DO WE NEED TEACHERS?
-Schools need people to do public relations.
-parents are busy -parents cannot help children with all subjects knowledge is growing and becoming more complex -children are becoming more complex -life is becoming more complex -help students get into university or a technical institute -help students prepare for employment -students need consellors

;.
./



4 .

~erefu~, we need resource people to help our children.
Why not teachers to work with parents who work with children or at least those parents who are willing and able to work wi children.
Perhaps this wouldn't work:

It looks as though we need specialized resource people to help our children when they have learning problems.

From time to time, these resource people can, and should, chec on progress, diagnose difficulties,-prescribe an exercise, or actually 'teach'.

with this group, I don't need to define teaching. We all agree that it isn't telling or demonstrating, we have books, tapes, and films for that; its helping the learner internalize what he observes, or hears.

II

WHY DO WE NEED DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION?
-to supervise teachers and principals -to establish curricula -to set salary scales -to collect taxes -to insure school attendance -to maintain a cadre of experts -to conduct exams and maintain standards -to issue Teachers' Licenses -to make the system work -to co-ordinate Education between Provinces -to carry out education programs not directly connected with the school. Example - Adult Education. Education of the Handicapped.

a



t-'

:J

:J

'j
. -

\
\
\
\
\

:1

j

5.

/7 r DO WE NEED ADMINISTRATORS?
teachers need supervision - someone needs to set policy / - schools can't run themselves / - education must be organized they know what is best for children / - to carry our policies of Departments of Education - to ensure that students are placed in the proper grade - to issue graduation certificates - to help teachers Let us look at what administrators do - decide on school procedures make sure that all reports are in on time - do P. R. work - decide what subjects students should take - make decisions as to school offerings WHY DO WE NEED SCHOOLS?
- place where students can study - easy access to a variety of resource materials and people - place for teachers to teach students who cannot overcome their own learning problems - place for administrators to operate and control - to provide tangible evidence of wise use of taxpayers' money - place for Departments of Education supervisors to meet with teachers and supervisors - place for parent-teacher conferences - place for Home & School meetings - to house and control expensive equipment.

\
\

ARE THERE ALTERNATIVES?
- I believe so.
Assuming that:
-learning is voluntary -education should be individualized -teachers are professional people -teachers should be paid for helping learners 1· -learners should be able to choose their own te -people should be paid for what they do and not what they are. 


In speaking of Educational change, I am reminded of the story of the old gentlemen who found himself in the lobby of a new Government Office Building. He was a bit dazed.
So he was looking around this huge high domed lobby when he noted two sliding steel doors set in the wall at the far end.
While he watched, a little old lady passed in front of him.
Her hair was grey and her face was lined, she was bent, her clothes were from the 1930s. Slowly she walked over and pushed a button beside one of the doors. There was a whirling of motors, the door opened she stepped inside, lights flashed, motors whirled again and she completely disappeared. While the old gentlemen watched in amazement, suddenly the door opened again. Out stepped a pert young miniskirted bucksome lass who moved quickly and confidentally through the lobby towards him. The old gentlemen 10oked, scratched his head with amazement and was heard to say, "I sure wish I had brought Maggie along".

There are a number

~j of models, which A

Model BC-2001

This is a primitive first-generation educational model. The teacher was the homemaker, the warrior, the fisherman, the farmer, the trader or any other experienced member of the community. He taught by example. It was an apprenticeship system. Life was relatively simple and the learner was able to delve into a broad range of corrumunity activities and was not required to be too specialized. At the same time, each member of the community learneq the akills, knowledge, and attitudes required to become a contributing member of his community. One other point of interest - the detailed responsibility for the training was placed squarely on the shoulders of the parent.

,I J I

Model AD-1601

~ now move to a second generation educational model, and we find it to be much less primitive. We now see some evidence of formalization of the educational structure in which the teacher operates. Education is provided, primarily, to an elite and the training provided is vocational in nature;
that is, it i~ primarily preparation for the exisiting vocations



7.

to be found in the Church, medicine or law. Teachers have

become an elite and, like the priesthood, have removed them-
CJ.,.Y'eS . . . .
selves from the a~ iE and responslbllltles of the workaday

world.

The teacher is now concerned with larger groups in an organized formal classroom ;;tLI~~.~, and meaningful application of knowledge is minimal. The priesthood of teachers, with appropriat( mysticisms, has begun to develop.
leI AD- (2000-30) ~st of us are quite familiar with this professional model
~ ~ ~I.J.~... (~ ~ ~ ci..--
because we fit the pict1:iro fairly HaLL WE! work in a somewhat formal structure~ften traditional in our outlook. There are attempts however, to develop prog!ams for all learners in the society.

Generally speaking the educational model is still quite formal, designed for an elite and given by an elite ~ in a setting that is unfamiliar to most learners. We do see however, some reactions to this in the student unrest in many schools and universities, and find that some leading educators are beginning to consider the learner as an important element in the teaching activity.

Emphasis is still on teaching instead of learning; a new god, with his own mystique, the educational administrator, has appeared on the scene; the authority of the church in education has been replaced by the authority of the Department of Education (the latter is often as out of touch with reality as was the former); educational technology is on the increase;
the learner has been deprived of his freedom to select his mentor and to reward him for a task well done.

Rumours persist of malpractice suits against teachers especially those in secondary schools, post-secondary institutions, and adult learning centres. One malpractice suit (for $35,000) involved a high school teacher and another (for $90,000) involved an instructor in an institute of Technology. 


8.

The dollar amounts are based upon the. a·..· ...~- ~£- life-time income lost by 'push-outs' (called drop-outs by professional ed uca tors) .

I see a number of you looking at your watches. A friend of mine, who had left his watch to be repaired, was speaking to a group. His talk went on and on.,..,..L!inally he sensed that he had talked longer than he had planneq and explain~ about not having a watch. 'be \lhiG-h ~omeone ~nded "There is a calendar in the back of the room."

Model AD-2000-X This model, which is really a prototype and is still under wraps, provides for individual programs and individualized instruction. Some learners receive the most of their in-

~ struction in their home, however, some is still provided . vi ~ R in institutions. We see a tremendous use of instructiomal J ~ aids and programed materials. Teachers are professionally ~ competent in a subject area and are responsible for the educational progress of students under their care. They no longer report to administrators.
Educators are of two major categories - family educational advisors, who handle the routine learning problems and specialists in a wide variety of fields who, perhaps, will only accept students on referral.
If one enters the institution in which the professional model works, one would find it difficult to find an administrator

in evidence. They have assumed their proper role as administrators and not as directors of the total educational

program.
In addition, we find many levels and types of specialized instructional staff and non-teaching aids working as a team.

Teachers are rewarded by the learners whom they serve. The extent of their income is directly related to the service that they provide. As a sidelight, one might point out that Departments of Education have practically disappeared. Let us look at this system in more detail for a few moments. 


9.

The state will ~~ill se~minimum requirements for granting licenses to teachers. No teacher can practice his profession without having a license. Once licensed, however, he can go into business for himself. He can open his own office and set his own fees. He is not bound to operate within an /-lh~ .
~ut orltarlan system.

The state has, and will continue to have a responsibility for good public education, it must ensure a basic level of literacy for all its citizens. In addition, it will provide funds for learning centres.

The current staff of our Departme~ts of Education will give way to a cadre of specialists who are drawn into the Department
<;. c.. 1":
because of expertise and who a~e kept under contr~or a short T"~(}'L c.:.. I~ period before returning to bhc pYofEs~lon. Administrators will find limited scope in Departments for advancement.
The other major contributions of government to education will be a program of "educare". Unlike the present system, the student will assign his benefits to the teacher and institution of his choice. provision of access to education, I believe, is a major responsibility of government.

Many professional teachers have bonded together in clinics.
In a clinic we find specialists in reading, English, Mathematics, chemistry, physics, etc. Learners come to the clinic when they have learning difficulties.

After consultation, the teacher may recommend a book, programmed course, taped material, or even formal training, discussion, or demonstration, in a school. The treatment will be under the direction of the specialists although many para-professionals will be required in the institution.

Institutions, or learning centres, will cater to the needs of students who require residential learning activites or intensive "teaching".



10.

Much of the routine learning will take place in the home. In the words of David L. Clark, Dean of the School of Education at Indiana University Day ~~~ "Educational Institutions will fall apart not because of their successes or failures but because they will be seen as inefficient ways for people to learn. Changes in communication techniques and the revolution and information retrieval will be the cause of the deans of the school as currently organized.

Clark thinks that twenty-five years from now its going to
'<,
stri~ us as peculiar that we continue to transport students to classrooms when its so much easier to transport information to students. Much of future educ~tion Clarks says, will be in the student's home with the aid of computors. The student will be able to draw ~nformation from a large centralized library and he will not know the classroom as it is today."
. ~
The administrator W'ill~o" bQ called upon to play his prQP~r role - ~o catQr ~9 tho Reoau v[ Lfic learRor ~D dia~noood

and El.iJ::c.ctcd BY the rHo[e;:,,,,,~vHal.
One N.A.S.S.P. study, due to be released soon, sees the role of the principal as a key educational leader, administrator, interpreter, conflict mediator, educator of educators, and ombudsman. A herculaen task, to say the least, and one which must have been conceived by administrators.

Learners may select their teachers and reward them for services rendered. Payment by results is relatively new, however, it isnot unheard of. In the February issue of the A.V.Guide, for example we find an account of the Texarkana project.

"An eighth grade student at Jefferson Junior High School here announced the other day he was ready to take his test in Mathematics. He was more than ready, he scored 100.
Did he get an A? Not quite. He was given 20 S & H Green Stamps which he licked on the spot and stuck into a stamp book kept just for him in the Classroom. He also was given a ten minute free period in which he listened on headphones 


11.

to the latest recordings of Aretha Franklin and Percy Sledge. The eighty grader was given Green Stamps and the free time to keep his interest in Math high. It seems to work. Moreover, his teacher may get some rewards too.
Perhaps several hundred dollars per pupil in gross income at the end of the year.

It works this way. The Company will be paid $80.00 for each student it can raise one grade level in 80 hours of instruction time. Payment goes up progressively to a maximum of $106.67 if Dorset can improve the student in 60 hours or less.
Similarly, the payment goes down if it takes longer. If after a 168 hours the student still has not been raised one grade level, Dorset gets no payment at all for the time it has spent on him. Dorset is confident that it can raise each student three or four or even more grade levels by June."

The February issue of the Phi Delta Kappen reports that an Illinois firm has launched a pioneering program in accountability for the learning level achieved by students. The new effort announced by the Open Court Publishing Company at LaSalle, offers a basic reading program to schools with the guarantee in writing, that it works. A new plan would charge the School systems for the text books and materials purchased from Open Court in proportion to the p~ograms' effectiveness.
Achievement will be measured by a Nationally recognized leading achievement test selected by the school purchasing the materials.

Entrance to the world of work, or membership in "occupational guilds" will be Lased upon the ability to demonstrate competence in the occupation.

Perhaps I should stop at this point and leave the rest to your imagination. Hopefully, my brief introduction to professional models has stimulated your imagination. If so, I am more than satisfied. Hopefully, your energies can and will be channeled into appropriate and acceptable changes 


12.

in your behaviour.

I I I I I I

I hope that you will forgive the rather cavalier attitude with which I approached our topic today. It was done delib-
~ ~3~~
erately and with a purpose. Whether or not it was tR- 'i.
approach, only time will tell.

REMEMBER:

Talk They fail But &1 a

e -7

best when people barely know that he exists.
Not so , when people obey and acclaim him.
Worse when despise him.

I

little,

aim is fulfilled,

this ourselves."
"

I

I

I I I I I I 
