From: MacDougall, Richard [MacDougallR@mar.dfo-mpo.gc.ca]
Sent: Saturday, January 14, 2006 12:02 PM
To: 'brydor@shaw.ca'
Subject: Re: Victoria Bridge

Hi Dorothy
That bridge brings back lots of memories for me too. 

We played in it - climbed the girders - went under the floor - fished from
the pier or the causeway or the wharf and peeked through the holes where
boards were missing.

The floor boards "flapped" when a car went over and made a great din. The
sounding the horses hooves and the iron rims of the waggon added to it. 

I remember them gravelling the road - about 1960 or 1961 and the trucks
hauling across it from McGraw's pit. Bert Mills was hired to drive the
spikes back down because they worked their way up as the planks flapped.
Bert had very poor eye sight ( might have been legally blind) so he pounded
spikes - spots of tar - spots of oil, anything darker than the planks. Then
another truck would cross and more spikes would rise up. 

Walking through at night was interesting. If someone had hidden and jumped
out at me I'd have been over the side I am sure. It was get your eyes
accustomed to the dark - focus on that rectangle of lighter sky at the far
end and try and walk down the centre of the roadway. Those missing boards
let in some light so were welcomed. This likely was good training for
driving - look far ahead and not at the lines on either side of you. 

We parked in it - drank beer from the boot leggers there because we were too
young to go to the liquor store - etc. 

The first time they closed it - about easter 1969 or 70  I think - they put
in 2 posts and put a guard rail across them and dumped a load of gravel to
boot. I got the guard rail off easily with an old crescent wrench but it
took me most of Good Friday to shovel enough off that pile of gravel to
drive across.  They left it open for quite awhile - we did petitions +n 69
but to no available. 

Enough of the past. Marion is home from work so I'd better see to feeding
her. 

Dick from Halifax where our thermometer says it is 13C. 

PS. I was in Black River last weekend to show British visitors snow. We
snowshoed across the river - they got all freaky afterwards when they
realized they'd been walking on the river. 
>From Blackberry Wireless

J. Richard MacDougall
Director / Directeur
Canadian Hydrographic Service (Atlantic) /Service Hydrographique du Canada
(Atlantique)
Bedford Institute of Oceanography/Institut Océanographique de Bedford
P.O. Box 1006   Dartmouth, NS.  Canada   B2Y 4A2/C.P. 1006   Dartmouth, N-É
Canada  B2Y 4A2
 (902) 426-3497    Fax/ Télécopieur: (902) 426-1893
Email/C-'élec: MacDougallR@mar.dfo-mpo.gc.ca



-----Original Message-----
From: Dorothy & Bryan
To: Richard MacDougall
Sent: Sat Jan 14 14:05:37 2006
Subject: Victoria Bridge

	Do those paintings ever bring back memories.  As a child, that
bridge scared me half to death.  It was sooo long and sooo loud and 
noisy.  I don't think any of the floor boards were nailed down.
Going through in a horse drawn vehicle was one thing but a car was 
something else.  I never did know if it had that effect on anyone else!

	Thanks for sending them.  I have always said if I had the money I
would put it back where it belongs.  Not a new cement one but the old
original one.  A covered bridge is perfect for the setting and it must 
have been a wonderful shelter for a bit of a rest on blustery or snowy 
days for man and beast.

	Again, many thanks.

			Dorothy
